{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 MICROSOFT AZURE DATA FUNDAMENTALS\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
1. Data can be classified as structured, semi-structured and unstructured.\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Structured: Data is often store in a database in which multiple tables can reference one another by using key values in a relational model.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Semi-structured: Data is information that has some structure and one common format for semi-structured data is JavaScript Object Notation (JSON).\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Unstructured: Not all data is structured or even semi-structured. For example, documents, images, audio and video data.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
2. There are two broad categories of data in common use:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}File stores\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Databases\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
3. Delimited text files: Data is often stored in plain text format with specific field delimiters and row terminators. \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}The most common format for delimited data is comma-separated values (CSV) in which fields are separated by commas, and row are terminated by a carriage return / new line. \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Other comm formats include tab-separated values (TSV).\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
4. JavaScript Object Notation (JSON): Is a ubiquitous format in which a hierarchical document schema is used to define data entities (objects) that have multiple attributes. Json is a flexible format that\'92s good for both structured and semi-structured data.\
\
5. Extensible Markup Language (XML): Is a human-readable data format that was popular in the 1990s and 2000s. \
\
6. Binary Large Object (BLOB): Ultimately, all files are stored as binary data (1\'92s and 0\'92s), but in the human-readable formats discussed above.\
\
7. Explore analytical data processing: Analytical data processing typically uses -read-only (or read-mostly) systems. A common architecture for enterprise-scale analytics are:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Operational data is extracted, transformed, and loaded (ETL) into a data lake for analysis.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Data is loaded into a schema of tables - typically in a spark-based data lake-house with tabular abstractions over files in the data lake, or a data warehouse with fully relational SQL engine.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Data in the data warehouse may be aggregated and loaded into an online analytical processing (OLAP) model.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}The data in the date lake, data warehouse, and analytical model can be queried to product reports, visualizations, and dashboards. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
8. Data lakes are common in large-scale data analytical processing scenarios, where a large volume of file-based data must be collected and analyzed.\
\
9. Data warehouse are an established way to store data in a relational schema that is optimized for read operations - primarily queries to support reporting and data visualization. Data lakehouses are a more recent innovation that combine the flexible and scalable storage of a data lake with the relational querying semantics of a data warehouse. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}